Germany is the second most important arm
supplier to Israel after the United
States the German government
distinguishes between classic weapons of
war and other defense equipment and it
argues that it only supplies defensive
weapons to Israel and always checks
their use but a human rights
organization based in Berlin is calling
for a complete stop to the supply of
weapons of war to Israel by Germany and
has sued the German government in a
Berlin Court also in behalf of five
Palestinians living in the Gaza
Strip Mr Schwartz what exactly do you
accuse the federal government of Germany
of legally in your lawsuit so we sue the
German government to stop the export of
German weapons of war to Israel because
we have reasonable grounds to believe
that with these kind of weapons Israel
is committing crimes against civilians
in Gaza crimes consisting of war crimes
and crimes Against Humanity as recently
confirmed by the chief prosecutor of the
international criminal court and in
doing so the German government is
violating its International obligations
on arms trade and its own National
obligations
now Nicaragua filed a lawsuit an
international lawsuit against Germany
earlier this year for supplying arms to
Israel and the German representatives
there argued that Germany supplies
defensive weapons and that their use is
being monitored and the icj judges in
their decision in May then agreed that
military support for Israel by Germany
has declined sharply since the beginning
of the Gaza war and they also did not
order any provisional measures for
Germany to stop its weapons exports to
Israel so what makes you confident that
you will manage to achieve just that so
the German representative in the
Nicaragua case also mentioned that they
delivered anti-tank uh weapons so-called
Bazookas and for example these kind of
bazookas we have knowledge and we have
incidents that these kind of weapons are
used in Gaza and as well we have
knowledge of ammunition which shall or
is being delivered um to Israel which
also we have reasonable grounds to
believe that this kind of ammunition is
used in Gaza actually and therefore is
used uh for the commission of war crimes
now the Israeli Army leadership of
course has repeatedly said that the
number of civilians killed in the fight
in Gaza is low compared to other battles
in urban areas such as the expulsion of
the is Islamic State in mosul in Iraq
for example and of course international
law does also provide for the right of
self-defense so what is your objection
to Israel that says it is defending
itself after the 7th of October
terrorist attacks on its territory so we
do not challenge Israel right of
self-defense Israel has its inherent
right of self-defense but the difference
we always have to made in international
law is the difference between the right
to self-defense and to comply with
International humanitarian law which are
the laws in war finally and we have a
lot of incidents that Israel is
violating these rules for example and
direct attacks on civilian population or
the inpr proportional attacks of
Civilian objects and civilian population
that means we do not challenge
self-defense but within self-defense
Israel has to respect humanitarian law
which from our point of view it does and
what kind of evidence do you have that
German arms are being used in what you
say could be potential war crimes what
is the evidence that you're working with
so we did and and got a lot of Open
Source investigations concerning videos
um witness statements
photographs
um and other documents as well we used
um International reports
from um the UN from Human Rights Watch
and other organizations that really have
a huge number of incidents and as well
we see online for example on social
media we see incidents and evidence um
delivered by members of the IDF
themselves by showing uh they are um
destroying for example um civilian
objects and these are acts that
presumably can constitute war crims and
which German weapons are we talking
about here we are talking as already
mentioned um of anti-tank uh weapons we
are talking of ammunition but we not
only talking about these direct weapons
of war we are also talking about and
deliveries of engines of tanks for
example which are delivered from Germany
to to Israel okay now your lawsuit
refers to the 2% of weapons deliveries
that Germany the German government
classified as classic weapons of war
what about the other
98% yeah the problem really is that
German law distinguish between weapons
of war and the other parts which means
components of weapons of war and so far
we only attacked or challenged with our
lawsuit this 2% why because we think
that these weapons of war are most
likely to being used to commit war
crimes in Gaza but but now we plan also
to file a second lawsuit concerning the
other 98% of weapons which um refers to
another jurisdiction here in Germany it
won't be filed to the federal court in
Berlin it will be filed to the
administrative Court in Frankfurt and
what have you heard from the court in
Berlin so far the trial is still pending
and we are now awaiting the decision of
the Court um and very likely it will be
at the beginning um of June we hope
um if they will
stop these kind of weapons of
war there is no other a legal
measure required and if they won't stop
of course we have to appeal this
judgment and we will and what knowledge
do you have has Germany continued to
supply weapons of War to Israel from our
knowledge so far what the German
government said during the trial and
what they mentioned at the icj um
hearings in the Hag from our knowledge
so far they do not um deliver any more
weapons of war but maybe it's only a
question of time until they will do
again now should German politicians at
some point expect to be held accountable
actually it's further a question of
international law obligations by the
German government by supplying weapons
of war to Israel um which are used to
commit war crimes this is not a question
of international criminal liability of
individual persons so what we are doing
actually is further relying on
International and state responsibility
not on individual criminal
responsibility this is a
question which um refers further to to
um direct attacks which are being
committed On The Ground by soldiers or
by members of the Hamas those persons
should be addressed by international
criminal law which is also possible to
do it in
Germany and we've talked about the icj
now what about the ICC we know that the
chief prosecutor has come forward and um
has requested an arrest warrant for
Benjamin nany but of course Israel does
not recognize the IC so how can
potential war crimes in Gaza committed
by the netan government be prosecuted
under criminal law so it is not required
that Israel is a member of the
international criminal court for being
prosecuted the question is that the
crime scene is Gaza and Gaza is part of
Palestine and Palestine is a member of
the international criminal court and
therefore the court has jurisdiction to
prosecute crimes committed in the Gaza
Strip and that's the reason why it's
completely legally and in accordance to
the Rome statute that the IC actually
can prosecute members of the Israeli
government and members of the Hamas
organization and now the question is
that um every arrest warrants as
recently mentioned has to be respected
by all the member states of the Rome
statute including Germany now but of
course the German government has always
argued that the security of the Israeli
State itself is a very big founding
principle essentially of modern-day
German foreign politics and there has
been a discussion after the chief
prosecutor came forward with his request
about the question will Germany would
Germany then arrest Benyamin Netanyahu
if the IC judges actually follow the
chief Prosecutor's request what do you
think in your experience as a lawyer
what will the German government do do
you think I would say first of all um as
a state being governed by the rule of
law of course the legal situation is
quite clear Germany is obliged to
respect the Rome statute which is is
it's member of and therefore it has to
really respect every arrest warrant
which is filed by the international
criminal court I think that does not
conflict with the so-called State
Doctrine um because State Doctrine is a
political concept
and here we are talking of legal
Concepts and I think the most important
is to respect the rule of law and to
respect the promise in this law and in
our Constitution and we are we have an
international law friendly constitution
in Germany and this means that we can't
override these rules by political
Concepts like the state Doctrine I think
this is what counts actually Alexander
Schwartz thank you very much pleasure